The rapid growth of technology and infrastructure has made our lives easier. The advent of technology has also increased the traffic hazards and the road accidents take place frequently which causes loss of life because of the poor emergency facilities. Nowadays we are able to track vehicles using many applications which helps in securing personal vehicles, public vehicles, feet units and others. Furthermore, there is a rapid increase in the occurrence of the Road accident. This project  is about a system which is developed to automatically detect an accident and alert the nearest hospitals and medical services about it. The main aim of this project is to implement real time vehicle parameter monitoring to continuously track a vehicle’s position and send information to the registered mobile if there is any increment in the speed levels. An accelerometer can be used in a car alarm applications so that dangerous driving can be detected. With signals from the accelerometer a severe accident can be recognized. Initially the GPS continuously takes input data from the satellite and stores the latitude and longitude values. If we have to track the vehicle, we need to send a message to GSM device, by which it gets activated.  Once GSM gets activated it takes the last received latitude and longitude positions values from the accelerometer and sends a message to the particular number which is predefined in the program. Once message has been sent to the predefined device the GSM gets deactivated and GPS gets activated. According to the project, when a vehicle meets with an accident the accelerometer will detect it and sends the alert message through the GSM MODEM including the location to nearby police stations and hospitals so that they can track the exact location of the accident spot through GPS MODEM after receiving the information. Then after confirming the location necessary actions can be taken. 

Working:
•	 Arduino Uno: Arduino Uno board is a microcontroller based on the ATmega328. It has 14 digital input/output pins in which 6 can be used as PWM outputs, a 16 MHz ceramic resonator, an ICSP header, a USB connection, 6 analog inputs, a power jack and a reset button
•	GSM Shield: GSM supports outgoing and incoming voice calls, Simple Message System (SMS or text messaging), and data communication (via GPRS). The Arduino GSM shield is a GSM modem.
•	Accelerometer: Accelerometer is used to detect the shock, it can separately detect the shock in X, Y and Z directions. We can use "vibration sensor" instant of accelerometer, but accuracy of vibration sensor is not too good. 
•	GPS: The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a space-based satellite navigation system that provides location and time information in all weather conditions, anywhere on or near the Earth where there is an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites.
•	LCD: LCD shows the Latitude and Longitude; at the time of accident it shows notifications.
Firstly, connect the circuit with the help of the equipment’s (GSM, GPS, bread board, LCD, connecting wires). Once the connection is done, click on the run option. But make sure the given connection is correct and tightly fixed.  
Once the program is successfully verified, we look into the serial monitor, which gives the information about current position of the vehicle, also the LCD display the values of latitude and longitude. If there is no accident detected, LCD display as “all ok”. Accelerometer which is used is to detect the accident, will get activated whenever there is sudden change in acceleration. Once the accelerometer is activated it also activates the GSM.GSM is a device which is used to send the SMS to the registered number. Thus, the GSM helps in the sending the message to the police station, hospitals and the near ones that we registered. The message which we get to the mobiles gives the information about the latitudes and longitudes, with the help of NMEA decoder we can track the location. Finally, the victim gets saved. 
In some cases when there is no accident but due to some sudden change in acceleration, we receive a false message. We can avoid this by putting a switch and operating it manually.      
Features:
•	Error Resolving: it is possible that Arduino detect the accident (due to high acceleration of vehicle), and send the accident alert, that should not be not tolerate, so a switch ("I AM OKAY") is placed on the circuit, when accident occurred, buzzer beeps for 30 second, after 30 seconds message will        be sent, but if someone press the "I AM OKAY" button message will not be sent.
    
CONCLUSION:
The proposed system deals with the accident alerting and detection. Arduino is the heart of the system which helps in transferring the messages to different devices in the system. Accelerometer will be activated when the accident occur and information is transferred to the registered number through GSM module. Using GPS the location can be sent through tracking system to cover the geographical coordinates over the area. The accident can be detected by a accelerometer which is used as major module in the system
